I am in the process of applying for the Professional Program in Accounting.  This means that it is essay writing time.  Usually, I have trouble starting essays, but for this application, I actually sat down and wrote all of them in one sitting.  I was relieved that I had finished them two weeks prior to the deadline, which meant that I had plenty of time to review and edit before submitting them. I felt so accomplished when I crossed “PPA essays” off of my to do list.  This feeling of accomplishment did not last long. In fact, it diminished within two minutes after completing my essays.
I decided to read the application again to make sure I did not miss any important instructions.  Above the essay section, I saw one minor detail that I skipped the first time.  The application states, “both the essays should be one typed page (1500 character limit).”  1500 CHARACTERS, not words. Oops.
I only have 1500 characters to sum up my career goals and how PPA will help me accomplish my aspirations.  I have another 1500 characters to write about a time when I was a leader and what I learned about my strengths and weaknesses from being a leader.  1500 characters is roughly three paragraphs—not even an entire typed page. It seems so limiting.
My essays both exceeded the character limit.  I panicked as I saw all of my hard work go down the drain.  Usually, I have to scramble to find more to say in my essays.  This time, I am faced with a different dilemma.  I have been staring at my essays for quite some time, trying to cut out sentences and shorten my wording. At this rate, my essays will not make any sense if I continue deleting words and sentences out of them.  I think it will be best if I just start over from scratch.
Now, I am putting “PPA essays” back on my to do list, and I plan on conquering the character limit another day.  This time, I will be victorious.
P.S. This blog is 1,524 characters, just in case you were wondering.
- See more at: http://maysblogs.tamu.edu/laura/2010/09/14/1500-characters-is-limiting/#sthash.RuoU46mD.dpuf
